Shahmohamadloo, R. S., et al. (2024). "Transgenerational epigenetic inheritance increases trait variation but is not adaptive." bioRxiv.
	Understanding processes that can produce adaptive phenotypic shifts in response to rapid environmental change is critical to reducing biodiversity loss. The ubiquity of environmentally induced epigenetic marks has led to speculation that epigenetic inheritance could potentially enhance population persistence in response to environmental change. Yet, the magnitude and fitness consequences of epigenetic marks carried beyond maternal inheritance are largely unknown. Here, we tested how transgenerational epigenetic inheritance (TEI) shapes the phenotypic response of Daphnia clones to the environmental stressor Microcystis. We split individuals from each of eight genotypes into exposure and control treatments (F0 generation) and tracked the fitness of their descendants to the F3 generation. We found transgenerational epigenetic exposure to Microcystis led to reduced rates of survival and individual growth and no consistent effect on offspring production. Increase in trait variance in the F3 relative to F0 generations suggests potential for heritable bet hedging driven by TEI, which could impact population dynamics. Our findings are counter to the working hypothesis that TEI is a generally adaptive mechanism likely to prevent extinction for populations inhabiting rapidly changing environments.

Sarkies, P., et al. (2024). "Gene body methylation evolves during the sustained loss of parental care in the burying beetle." Nature Communications 15(1).
	
Sapozhnikov, D. M. and M. Szyf (2024). "Genetic confounds of transgenerational epigenetic inheritance in mice." Epigenetics 19(1): 2318519.
	Transgenerational epigenetic inheritance in mammals remains a controversial phenomenon. A recent study by Takahashi et al. provides evidence for this mode of inheritance in mice by using a CRISPR/Cas9-based epigenetic editing technique to modify DNA methylation levels at specific promoters and then demonstrating the inheritance of the gain in methylation in offspring. In this technical commentary, we argue that the method used in the original study inherently amplifies the likelihood of genetic changes that thereafter lead to the heritability of epigenetic changes. We provide evidence that genetic changes from multiple sources do indeed occur in these experiments and explore several avenues by which these changes could be causal to the apparent inheritance of epigenetic changes. We conclude a genetic basis of inheritance cannot be ruled out and thus transgenerational epigenetic inheritance has not been adequately established by the original study.

Sammarco, I., et al. (2024). "DNA methylation in the wild: epigenetic transgenerational inheritance can mediate adaptation in clones of wild strawberry (Fragaria vesca)." New Phytol 241(4): 1621-1635.
	Due to the accelerating climate change, it is crucial to understand how plants adapt to rapid environmental changes. Such adaptation may be mediated by epigenetic mechanisms like DNA methylation, which could heritably alter phenotypes without changing the DNA sequence, especially across clonal generations. However, we are still missing robust evidence of the adaptive potential of DNA methylation in wild clonal populations. Here, we studied genetic, epigenetic and transcriptomic variation of Fragaria vesca, a predominantly clonally reproducing herb. We examined samples from 21 natural populations across three climatically distinct geographic regions, as well as clones of the same individuals grown in a common garden. We found that epigenetic variation was partly associated with climate of origin, particularly in non-CG contexts. Importantly, a large proportion of this variation was heritable across clonal generations. Additionally, a subset of these epigenetic changes affected the expression of genes mainly involved in plant growth and responses to pathogen and abiotic stress. These findings highlight the potential influence of epigenetic changes on phenotypic traits. Our findings indicate that variation in DNA methylation, which can be environmentally inducible and heritable, may enable clonal plant populations to adjust to their environmental conditions even in the absence of genetic adaptation.

Martinez, M. E., et al. (2024). "Transgenerational epigenetic self-memory of
 Dio3
 dosage is associated with
 Meg3
 methylation and altered growth trajectories and neonatal hormones." Epigenetics 19(1).
	
Marogi, J. G., et al. (2024). "Pseudomonas aeruginosa modulates both Caenorhabditis elegans attraction and pathogenesis by regulating nitrogen assimilation." Nature Communications 15(1).
	
Ma, Z., et al. (2024). "Ribonuclease Inhibitor 1 (RNH1) Regulates Sperm tsRNA Generation for Paternal Inheritance through Interacting with Angiogenin in the Caput Epididymis." Antioxidants 13(8).
	
Li, Y., et al. (2024). "Intergenerational epigenetic inheritance mediated by MYS-2/MOF in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer’s disease." iScience 27(8).
	
Haberman, M., et al. (2024). "Paternal high-fat diet affects weight and DNA methylation of their offspring." Scientific Reports 14(1).
	
Copenhaver, G. P., et al. (2024). "A natural bacterial pathogen of C. elegans uses a small RNA to induce transgenerational inheritance of learned avoidance." PLOS Genetics 20(3).
	
Champroux, A., et al. (2024). "Transmission of reduced levels of miR-34/449 from sperm to preimplantation embryos is a key step in the transgenerational epigenetic inheritance of the effects of paternal chronic social instability stress." Epigenetics 19(1): 2346694.
	The transgenerational effects of exposing male mice to chronic social instability (CSI) stress are associated with decreased sperm levels of multiple members of the miR-34/449 family that persist after their mating through preimplantation embryo (PIE) development. Here we demonstrate the importance of these miRNA changes by showing that restoring miR-34c levels in PIEs derived from CSI stressed males prevents elevated anxiety and defective sociability normally found specifically in their adult female offspring. It also restores, at least partially, levels of sperm miR-34/449 normally reduced in their male offspring who transmit these sex-specific traits to their offspring. Strikingly, these experiments also revealed that inducing miR-34c levels in PIEs enhances the expression of its own gene and that of miR-449 in these cells. The same induction of embryo miR-34/449 gene expression likely occurs after sperm-derived miR-34c is introduced into oocytes upon fertilization. Thus, suppression of this miRNA amplification system when sperm miR-34c levels are reduced in CSI stressed mice can explain how a comparable fold-suppression of miR-34/449 levels can be found in PIEs derived from them, despite sperm containing ~50-fold lower levels of these miRNAs than those already present in PIEs. We previously found that men exposed to early life trauma also display reduced sperm levels of miR-34/449. And here we show that miR-34c can also increase the expression of its own gene, and that of miR-449 in human embryonic stem cells, suggesting that human PIEs derived from men with low sperm miR-34/449 levels may also contain this potentially harmful defect.

Cao, S. and Z. J. Chen (2024). "Transgenerational epigenetic inheritance during plant evolution and breeding." Trends Plant Sci.
	Plants can program and reprogram their genomes to create genetic variation and epigenetic modifications, leading to phenotypic plasticity. Although consequences of genetic changes are comprehensible, the basis for transgenerational inheritance of epigenetic variation is elusive. This review addresses contributions of external (environmental) and internal (genomic) factors to the establishment and maintenance of epigenetic memory during plant evolution, crop domestication, and modern breeding. Dynamic and pervasive changes in DNA methylation and chromatin modifications provide a diverse repertoire of epigenetic variation potentially for transgenerational inheritance. Elucidating and harnessing epigenetic inheritance will help us develop innovative breeding strategies and biotechnological tools to improve crop yield and resilience in the face of environmental challenges. Beyond plants, epigenetic principles are shared across sexually reproducing organisms including humans with relevance to medicine and public health.

Behera, S., et al. (2024). "Comprehensive genome analysis and variant detection at scale using DRAGEN." Nat Biotechnol.
	Research and medical genomics require comprehensive, scalable methods for the discovery of novel disease targets, evolutionary drivers and genetic markers with clinical significance. This necessitates a framework to identify all types of variants independent of their size or location. Here we present DRAGEN, which uses multigenome mapping with pangenome references, hardware acceleration and machine learning-based variant detection to provide insights into individual genomes, with ~30 min of computation time from raw reads to variant detection. DRAGEN outperforms current state-of-the-art methods in speed and accuracy across all variant types (single-nucleotide variations, insertions or deletions, short tandem repeats, structural variations and copy number variations) and incorporates specialized methods for analysis of medically relevant genes. We demonstrate the performance of DRAGEN across 3,202 whole-genome sequencing datasets by generating fully genotyped multisample variant call format files and demonstrate its scalability, accuracy and innovation to further advance the integration of comprehensive genomics. Overall, DRAGEN marks a major milestone in sequencing data analysis and will provide insights across various diseases, including Mendelian and rare diseases, with a highly comprehensive and scalable platform.

Takahashi, Y., et al. (2023). "Transgenerational inheritance of acquired epigenetic signatures at CpG islands in mice." Cell 186(4): 715-731.e719.
	
Seroussi, U., et al. (2023). "A comprehensive survey of C. elegans argonaute proteins reveals organism-wide gene regulatory networks and functions." Elife 12.
	Argonaute (AGO) proteins associate with small RNAs to direct their effector function on complementary transcripts. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans contains an expanded family of 19 functional AGO proteins, many of which have not been fully characterized. In this work, we systematically analyzed every C. elegans AGO using CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing to introduce GFP::3xFLAG tags. We have characterized the expression patterns of each AGO throughout development, identified small RNA binding complements, and determined the effects of ago loss on small RNA populations and developmental phenotypes. Our analysis indicates stratification of subsets of AGOs into distinct regulatory modules, and integration of our data led us to uncover novel stress-induced fertility and pathogen response phenotypes due to ago loss.

Risal, S., et al. (2023). "Transgenerational transmission of reproductive and metabolic dysfunction in the male progeny of polycystic ovary syndrome." Cell Reports Medicine 4(5).
	
Galves, M., et al. (2023). "Transcriptional profiling of the response to starvation and fattening reveals differential regulation of autophagy genes in mammals." Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences 290(1995).
	
Zhu, Y., et al. (2022). "The long noncoding RNA glycoLINC assembles a lower glycolytic metabolon to promote glycolysis." Molecular Cell 82(3): 542-554.e546.
	
Li, G., et al. (2022). "Transcriptional memory of gene expression across generations participates in transgenerational plasticity of field pennycress in response to cadmium stress." Frontiers in Plant Science 13.
	
Jawahar, J., et al. (2022). "Starvation causes changes in the intestinal transcriptome and microbiome that are reversed upon refeeding." BMC Genomics 23(1).
	
Crisóstomo, L., et al. (2022). "Testicular “Inherited Metabolic Memory” of Ancestral High-Fat Diet Is Associated with Sperm sncRNA Content." Biomedicines 10(4).
	
Bottom, R. T., et al. (2022). "Transgenerational Effects of Prenatal Ethanol Exposure in Prepubescent Mice." Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology 10.
	
Zheng, X., et al. (2021). "Sperm epigenetic alterations contribute to inter- and transgenerational effects of paternal exposure to long-term psychological stress via evading offspring embryonic reprogramming." Cell Discovery 7(1).
	
Yanbo Wang1, 3*, Zhang-Peng Chen1,4*, Huanhuan Hu1*, Jieqiong Lei1*, Zhen Zhou1*, Bing Yao5,, et al. (2021). "<Sperm microRNAs confer depression susceptibility to offspring.pdf>." SCIENCE ADVANCES.
	
Xu, J., et al. (2021). "siRNA-mediated Eppin testicular silencing causes changes in sperm motility and calcium currents in mice." Reprod Biol 21(2): 100485.
	Epididymal protease inhibitor (EPPIN) is differentially expressed in the reproductive tissues (such as testicles, outlet tubes, epididymis, vas deferens, and seminal vesicles). Its critical role in sperm function and male reproduction has shed light on EPPIN as a candidate target for male contraceptive vaccines. In this study, we endeavored to further reveal the mechanism through which EPPIN exerts its function. We created a mouse model of reduced Eppin expression by microinjecting small interfering RNA targeting Eppin expression into seminiferous tubules of mice. This mouse model was then used to explore the effects of low Eppin expression on sperm function, which was assessed by Computer Assisted Semen Analysis and patch clamp recording of T-type Ca(2+) current in spermatogenic cells. We found that the sperm motility significantly declined when Eppin was downregulated. Further investigation demonstrated that Eppin downregulation significantly affected T-type Ca(2+) currents and messenger RNA expression of three subtypes of T-type Ca(2+) channels in spermatogenic cells. These findings indicate that low Eppin gene expression induces decreased T-type Ca(2+) currents and mRNA expression, which in turn results in the reduced sperm motility.

Moore, R. S., et al. (2021). "The role of the Cer1 transposon in horizontal transfer of transgenerational memory." Cell 184(18): 4697-4712.e4618.
	
Li, Y., et al. (2021). "Abnormal PIWI-interacting RNA profile and its association with the deformed extracellular matrix of oocytes from recurrent oocyte maturation arrest patients." Fertility and Sterility 115(5): 1318-1326.
	
Crisóstomo, L., et al. (2021). "Inheritable testicular metabolic memory of high-fat diet causes transgenerational sperm defects in mice." Scientific Reports 11(1).
	
Cheuquemán, C. and R. Maldonado (2021). "Non-coding RNAs and chromatin: key epigenetic factors from spermatogenesis to transgenerational inheritance." Biological Research 54(1).
	
Tyebji, S., et al. (2020). "Pathogenic Infection in Male Mice Changes Sperm Small RNA Profiles and Transgenerationally Alters Offspring Behavior." Cell Reports 31(4).
	
Schmauch, B., et al. (2020). "A deep learning model to predict RNA-Seq expression of tumours from whole slide images." Nat Commun 11(1): 3877.
	Deep learning methods for digital pathology analysis are an effective way to address multiple clinical questions, from diagnosis to prediction of treatment outcomes. These methods have also been used to predict gene mutations from pathology images, but no comprehensive evaluation of their potential for extracting molecular features from histology slides has yet been performed. We show that HE2RNA, a model based on the integration of multiple data modes, can be trained to systematically predict RNA-Seq profiles from whole-slide images alone, without expert annotation. Through its interpretable design, HE2RNA provides virtual spatialization of gene expression, as validated by CD3- and CD20-staining on an independent dataset. The transcriptomic representation learned by HE2RNA can also be transferred on other datasets, even of small size, to increase prediction performance for specific molecular phenotypes. We illustrate the use of this approach in clinical diagnosis purposes such as the identification of tumors with microsatellite instability.

Kaletsky, R., et al. (2020). "C. elegans interprets bacterial non-coding RNAs to learn pathogenic avoidance." Nature 586(7829): 445-451.
	
Jin, G., et al. (2020). "The Processing, Gene Regulation, Biological Functions, and Clinical Relevance of N4-Acetylcytidine on RNA: A Systematic Review." Molecular Therapy - Nucleic Acids 20: 13-24.
	
Sarker, G., et al. (2019). "Maternal overnutrition programs hedonic and metabolic phenotypes across generations through sperm tsRNAs." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 116(21): 10547-10556.
	
Sadler-Riggleman, I., et al. (2019). "Epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of testis pathology and Sertoli cell epimutations: generational origins of male infertility." Environmental Epigenetics 5(3).
	
Posner, R., et al. (2019). "Neuronal Small RNAs Control Behavior Transgenerationally." Cell 177(7): 1814-1826.e1815.
	
Phillips, C. M., et al. (2019). "Maternal and zygotic gene regulatory effects of endogenous RNAi pathways." PLOS Genetics 15(2).
	
Jaganathan, K., et al. (2019). "Predicting Splicing from Primary Sequence with Deep Learning." Cell 176(3): 535-548 e524.
	The splicing of pre-mRNAs into mature transcripts is remarkable for its precision, but the mechanisms by which the cellular machinery achieves such specificity are incompletely understood. Here, we describe a deep neural network that accurately predicts splice junctions from an arbitrary pre-mRNA transcript sequence, enabling precise prediction of noncoding genetic variants that cause cryptic splicing. Synonymous and intronic mutations with predicted splice-altering consequence validate at a high rate on RNA-seq and are strongly deleterious in the human population. De novo mutations with predicted splice-altering consequence are significantly enriched in patients with autism and intellectual disability compared to healthy controls and validate against RNA-seq in 21 out of 28 of these patients. We estimate that 9%-11% of pathogenic mutations in patients with rare genetic disorders are caused by this previously underappreciated class of disease variation.

Cong, W., et al. (2019). "Transgenerational memory of gene expression changes induced by heavy metal stress in rice (Oryza sativa L.)." BMC Plant Biology 19(1).
	
Chen, T.-H. and J.-A. Chen (2019). "Multifaceted roles of microRNAs: From motor neuron generation in embryos to degeneration in spinal muscular atrophy." Elife 8.
	
Yu, R., et al. (2018). "Epigenetic inheritance mediated by coupling of RNAi and histone H3K9 methylation." Nature 558(7711): 615-619.
	
Skinner, M. K., et al. (2018). "Alterations in sperm DNA methylation, non-coding RNA and histone retention associate with DDT-induced epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of disease." Epigenetics & Chromatin 11(1).
	
Larriba, E. and J. del Mazo (2018). "An integrative piRNA analysis of mouse gametes and zygotes reveals new potential origins and gene regulatory roles." Scientific Reports 8(1).
	
Gapp, K., et al. (2018). "Alterations in sperm long RNA contribute to the epigenetic inheritance of the effects of postnatal trauma." Molecular Psychiatry 25(9): 2162-2174.
	
Canan Kuscu, P. K., MANJARI KIRAN, ZHANGLI SU, ASRAR MALIK, and ANINDYA DUTTA (2018). "tRNA fragments (tRFs) guide Ago to regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally in a Dicer-independent manner."
	
Benito, E., et al. (2018). "RNA-Dependent Intergenerational Inheritance of Enhanced Synaptic Plasticity after Environmental Enrichment." Cell Reports 23(2): 546-554.
	
Schuster, A., et al. (2016). "Ancestral vinclozolin exposure alters the epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of sperm small noncoding RNAs." Environmental Epigenetics 2(1).
	
Gapp, K., et al. (2016). "Potential of Environmental Enrichment to Prevent Transgenerational Effects of Paternal Trauma." Neuropsychopharmacology 41(11): 2749-2758.
	
Bechard, A. R. and M. H. Lewis (2016). "Transgenerational effects of environmental enrichment on repetitive motor behavior development." Behavioural Brain Research 307: 145-149.
	
Roovers, Elke F., et al. (2015). "Piwi Proteins and piRNAs in Mammalian Oocytes and Early Embryos." Cell Reports 10(12): 2069-2082.
	
Rodgers, A. B., et al. (2015). "Transgenerational epigenetic programming via sperm microRNA recapitulates effects of paternal stress." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 112(44): 13699-13704.
	
Grandjean, V., et al. (2015). "RNA-mediated paternal heredity of diet-induced obesity and metabolic disorders." Scientific Reports 5(1).
	
Pembrey, M., et al. (2014). "Human transgenerational responses to early-life experience: potential impact on development, health and biomedical research." Journal of Medical Genetics 51(9): 563-572.
	
Gapp, K., et al. (2014). "Implication of sperm RNAs in transgenerational inheritance of the effects of early trauma in mice." Nature Neuroscience 17(5): 667-669.
	
Rodgers, A. B., et al. (2013). "Paternal Stress Exposure Alters Sperm MicroRNA Content and Reprograms Offspring HPA Stress Axis Regulation." The Journal of Neuroscience 33(21): 9003-9012.
	
Fullston, T., et al. (2013). "Paternal obesity initiates metabolic disturbances in two generations of mice with incomplete penetrance to the F2generation and alters the transcriptional profile of testis and sperm microRNA content." The FASEB Journal 27(10): 4226-4243.
	
Dias, B. G. and K. J. Ressler (2013). "Parental olfactory experience influences behavior and neural structure in subsequent generations." Nature Neuroscience 17(1): 89-96.
	
Marczylo, E. L., et al. (2012). "Smoking induces differential miRNA expression in human spermatozoa: a potential transgenerational epigenetic concern?" Epigenetics 7(5): 432-439.
	Recent work has suggested that environmental chemicals, including those contained in cigarette smoke, can have adverse effects on the exposed individuals as well as their future progeny. The mechanisms underlying transmission of environmentally induced phenotypes through the germ line are not well understood. However, a predominant process appears to be the establishment of permanent heritable epigenetic alterations, and a number of studies have implicated microRNAs in such processes. Here, we show that cigarette smoke induces specific differences in the spermatozoal microRNA content of human smokers compared with non-smokers, and that these altered microRNAs appear to predominantly mediate pathways vital for healthy sperm and normal embryo development, particularly cell death and apoptosis. microRNA-mediated perturbation of such pathways may explain how harmful phenotypes can be induced in the progeny of smokers.

Arai, J. A. and L. A. Feig (2011). "Long-lasting and transgenerational effects of an environmental enrichment on memory formation." Brain Research Bulletin 85(1-2): 30-35.
	
Curley, J. P. (2009). "Social enrichment during postnatal development induces transgenerational effects on emotional and reproductive behavior in mice." Frontiers in Behavioral Neuroscience 3.
	
Arai, J. A., et al. (2009). "Transgenerational Rescue of a Genetic Defect in Long-Term Potentiation and Memory Formation by Juvenile Enrichment." The Journal of Neuroscience 29(5): 1496-1502.
	
Watanabe, T., et al. (2008). "Endogenous siRNAs from naturally formed dsRNAs regulate transcripts in mouse oocytes." Nature 453(7194): 539-543.
	RNA interference (RNAi) is a mechanism by which double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) suppress specific transcripts in a sequence-dependent manner. dsRNAs are processed by Dicer to 21-24-nucleotide small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and then incorporated into the argonaute (Ago) proteins. Gene regulation by endogenous siRNAs has been observed only in organisms possessing RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP). In mammals, where no RdRP activity has been found, biogenesis and function of endogenous siRNAs remain largely unknown. Here we show, using mouse oocytes, that endogenous siRNAs are derived from naturally occurring dsRNAs and have roles in the regulation of gene expression. By means of deep sequencing, we identify a large number of both approximately 25-27-nucleotide Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) and approximately 21-nucleotide siRNAs corresponding to messenger RNAs or retrotransposons in growing oocytes. piRNAs are bound to Mili and have a role in the regulation of retrotransposons. siRNAs are exclusively mapped to retrotransposons or other genomic regions that produce transcripts capable of forming dsRNA structures. Inverted repeat structures, bidirectional transcription and antisense transcripts from various loci are sources of the dsRNAs. Some precursor transcripts of siRNAs are derived from expressed pseudogenes, indicating that one role of pseudogenes is to adjust the level of the founding source mRNA through RNAi. Loss of Dicer or Ago2 results in decreased levels of siRNAs and increased levels of retrotransposon and protein-coding transcripts complementary to the siRNAs. Thus, the RNAi pathway regulates both protein-coding transcripts and retrotransposons in mouse oocytes. Our results reveal a role for endogenous siRNAs in mammalian oocytes and show that organisms lacking RdRP activity can produce functional endogenous siRNAs from naturally occurring dsRNAs.

Tam, O. H., et al. (2008). "Pseudogene-derived small interfering RNAs regulate gene expression in mouse oocytes." Nature 453(7194): 534-538.
	Pseudogenes populate the mammalian genome as remnants of artefactual incorporation of coding messenger RNAs into transposon pathways. Here we show that a subset of pseudogenes generates endogenous small interfering RNAs (endo-siRNAs) in mouse oocytes. These endo-siRNAs are often processed from double-stranded RNAs formed by hybridization of spliced transcripts from protein-coding genes to antisense transcripts from homologous pseudogenes. An inverted repeat pseudogene can also generate abundant small RNAs directly. A second class of endo-siRNAs may enforce repression of mobile genetic elements, acting together with Piwi-interacting RNAs. Loss of Dicer, a protein integral to small RNA production, increases expression of endo-siRNA targets, demonstrating their regulatory activity. Our findings indicate a function for pseudogenes in regulating gene expression by means of the RNA interference pathway and may, in part, explain the evolutionary pressure to conserve argonaute-mediated catalysis in mammals.

Ghildiyal, M., et al. (2008). "Endogenous siRNAs derived from transposons and mRNAs in Drosophila somatic cells." Science 320(5879): 1077-1081.
	Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) direct RNA interference (RNAi) in eukaryotes. In flies, somatic cells produce siRNAs from exogenous double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) as a defense against viral infection. We identified endogenous siRNAs (endo-siRNAs), 21 nucleotides in length, that correspond to transposons and heterochromatic sequences in the somatic cells of Drosophila melanogaster. We also detected endo-siRNAs complementary to messenger RNAs (mRNAs); these siRNAs disproportionately mapped to the complementary regions of overlapping mRNAs predicted to form double-stranded RNA in vivo. Normal accumulation of somatic endo-siRNAs requires the siRNA-generating ribonuclease Dicer-2 and the RNAi effector protein Argonaute2 (Ago2). We propose that endo-siRNAs generated by the fly RNAi pathway silence selfish genetic elements in the soma, much as Piwi-interacting RNAs do in the germ line.

Aravin, A. A., et al. (2008). "A piRNA Pathway Primed by Individual Transposons Is Linked to De Novo DNA Methylation in Mice." Molecular Cell 31(6): 785-799.
	
Philippe Ganot, M.-L. B., and Tama ́ s Kiss (1997). "Site-Specific Pseudouridine Formation in Preribosomal RNA Is Guided by Small Nucleolar RNAs."
	
"<Biogenesis and function of tRNA fragments during sperm maturation and fertilization in mammals.pdf>."
	
"<Sperm tsRNAs contribute to intergenerational inheritance of an acquired metabolic disorder.pdf>."
	
